monerod: tor and i2p guides (#66)
monero-project/monero-docs: docs/en/running-node/monerod-tori2p.md

---
title: Tor and I2P

config: (../interacting/monero-config-file.md#monerodconf)
---

!!! note ""
    How to add Tor and/or I2P to your Monero node

### Assumptions

You possess:

- Basic understanding of Linux administration
- Root access to a Linux distribution
- A Monero Node

Some commands assume Ubuntu but you can trivially translate them to your distribution.

??? question "Why use anonymity networks?"

    **Why use anonymity networks?**
    You will be able to connect your desktop and mobile Monero wallets to your own trusted Monero node,
    in a secure and private way over Tor or I2P.

>     **Tor and I2P hidden services for wallet interface** are useful for wallet users because it bypasses NATA and also works to mitigates MiTM risks (which are very real). Hidden service connections are end-to-end encrypted and private by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Tor and I2P hidden services for wallet interface** are useful for wallet users because it bypasses [NAT](https://tailscale.com/blog/how-nat-traversal-works) and also works to mitigate MITM risks (which are very real). Hidden service connections are end-to-end encrypted and private by default.
```
